[Music]
Hi listeners, welcome back to No Priors.
Today Allad and I are here with Edwin
Chen, the founder and CEO of Surge, the
bootstrapped human data startup that
surpassed a billion in revenue last year
and serves top tier clients like Google,
OpenAI, and Anthropic. We talk about
what highquality human data means, the
role of humans as models become
superhuman, benchmark hacking, why he
believes in a diversity of frontier
models, the scale meta not M&A deal, and
why there's no ceiling on environment
quality for RL or the simulated worlds
that labs want to train agents in.
Edwin, thanks for joining us.
>> Great. Great seeing you guys today.
>> Serge has been really under the radar
until just about now. So um can you give
us a little bit of uh color on sort of
scale of the company and what the
original founding thesis was?
>> So we hit over a billion written revenue
last year. We are kind of like the
biggest human data player in the space
and we're about 100 a little over 100
people. And our original thesis was we
just really believed in the power of
human data to advance AI and we just had
this really big focus from the start of
making sure that we we had the highest
quality data possible.
>> Can you give people context for how long
you've been around, how you got going,
etc. I think again you all have
accomplished an enormous amount in a
short period of time and I think you
know you've been very quiet about some
of the things you've been doing. So it
be great to just get a little bit of
history and you know when you started,
how you got started and how long you've
been around. Uh yeah, so we've been
around for five years. I think we just
hit our 5year anniversary. So we started
in 2020. So before that, so I can give
some of the context. So before that, I
used to work at Google, Facebook, and
Twitter. And one of the like basically
the reason we started Surge was I just
used to work on ML at a bunch of these
big companies. And just the problem I
kept running into over and over again
was that it really was impossible
getting the data that we needed to train
our models. So it was just this big
blocker that we faced over and over
again. And there was just like so much
more that we wanted to do like even just
the basic things that we wanted to do.
We struggled so hard to get the data. It
was really just the the big blocker. But
then simultaneously there were all these
more futuristic things that we wanted to
build. Like if we thought of the next
generation AI systems if we could barely
get the data that we needed at the time
to solve like just building a simple
analysis classifier. We if we could
barely do that then like how would we
ever advance advance beyond that? So
that that really was the the biggest
problem. I can go into more of that, but
that that that was what we faced.
>> And then you guys are also known for
having bootstrapped the company versus
raising a lot of external venture money
or things like that. Do you want to talk
about that choice in terms of going
profitable early and then scaling off of
that?
>> In terms of why we didn't raise so big
part of it was obviously just that we
didn't need a money. I think we were
very very lucky to be profitable from
from the start. So we didn't need a
money. It always felt weird to give up
control and like one of the things I've
always hated about Silicon Valley is
that you see so many people raising for
the sake of racing. Like I think one of
the things that I often see is that a
lot of founders that I know they don't
they don't have some big dream of
building a product that solves some idea
that they really believe in. Like if you
talk to a bunch of YC founders or
whoever it is, like what what is their
goal? It really is to tell all their
friends that they raised $10 million and
to show their parents they got a
headline on Techrunch. Like that is
their goal. Like I I think of like my
friends at Google, they they often tell
me, "Oh yeah, I you know, I've been at
Google or Facebook for 10 years and I
want to start a company." I'm like,
"Okay, so what problem do you want to
solve?" And they don't know. They're
like, "Yeah, I just want to start
something new. I'm bored." And it's
weird because they can like pay their
own salaries for a couple months. Again,
they've been at Google and Facebook for
10 years. They're not just like fresh
out of school. They they can pay their
own salaries, but the first thing they
think about is just going out and
raising money. And I've always thought
it weird because they like might try
talking to some users and they might try
building an MVP, but they kind of just
do it in this throwaway manner where the
only reason they do it is to check off a
box on a startup accelerate application
and then they'll just pay right around
these random product ideas and they
happen to get a little bit of traction
so that the VC DMs them. And so they
spend all their time tweeting and they
go to these VC dinners and it's all just
so that they can show the world that
they raised a big amount of money. And
so I think raising immediately always
felt silly to me like everybody's
default is to just immediately raise.
But if you were to think about it from
first principles, like if you didn't
know how Silicon Valley worked, if you
didn't know that raising was a thing,
like why why would you do that? Like
what is money really going to solve for
90% of these startups where the founders
are lucky to have some savings? I really
really think that your first instinct
should be to go out and build whatever
you're dreaming of. And sure, if you
ever run into financial problems, then
sure, think about raising money then,
but don't waste all this effort and time
up front when you don't even know what
you do with it.
>> Yeah, it's funny. I feel like I'm one of
the few investors that actually tries to
talk people out of fundraising often,
>> right? Like I actually had a
conversation today where the founder was
talking about doing a raise and I'm like
why you know you don't have to you can
maintain control etc. And then the flip
side of it is I would actually argue
outside of Silicon Valley too few people
raise venture capital when the money can
actually help them scale. And so I feel
like in Silicon Valley there's too much
and outside of Silicon Valley there's
too little. So it's this interesting you
know spread of uh different models that
sort of stick. Edwin, what would you um
what would you say to founders who uh
feel like there's some external
validation necessary to uh especially
like a hire a team or scale their team?
This is a very like common complaint or
rationale for going and raising more
capital.
>> I think about it in a couple ways. So I
guess it depends on what you mean by
external validation. Like in my mind
again like I often think about things
from a p perspective of are you trying
to build a startup that's actually going
to change the world like do you have
this big thing that you're dreaming of
and if you have this big thing that
you're dreaming of you
like why do you care? Maybe the way to
to think about it is in in Sarah's
context like if you haven't say you're a
YC founder, you haven't been at Google,
you haven't been at Meta, you haven't
been at Twitter, you don't have this
network of engineers, you're a complete
unknown, you haven't worked with very
many people, you're straight out of
school,
>> how do you then attract that talent? And
to your point, you can tell a story of
how you're going to build things or what
you're going to do or but it is a harder
um obstacle to basically convince others
to join you or for others to come on
board or to have money to pay them if
you haven't if you don't have long work
history. So I think maybe that's the
point Sarah is making. Uh yeah. So I
mean I think I would differentiate
between maybe two two things like one is
do you need the money? So first of all
like there's a difference between people
who are yeah like literally fresh out of
school or maybe you know never gone to
school for first place and so maybe they
don't have any savings and so they
literally need some money in order in
order to live and then there's others
who okay like let's assume that you
don't necessarily need money because
again you've been working at Google or
Facebook for 10 years like or you know 5
years whatever it is you have some
savings. So I would say one of the
questions is again like it kind of the
the path kind of differs depending on
depending on those those two those two
choices or those two um scenarios but I
think one of the questions is well do
you really need to go out and hire all
these people? Like one of the things I
often see again like I'm curious what
you guys see but one of the things I
often see is founders will tell me like
uh okay so I'm trying I'm trying to
think about the first few hires I'm
going to make and they're like yeah I'm
going to hire a PM. I'm going to hire a
data scientist. Yeah, these are one of
my first five to 10 hires. I'm like
what? Like this is just wild to me. Like
I would never hire data scientists one
of the first few people in a company.
And and I say this because I used to be
a data scientist. Like data scientists
are great when you want to optimize your
product by 2% or 5%. But that's
definitely not what you want to be doing
when you start a company. You you're
trying to swing for 10x or 100x changes,
not worrying and nitpicking about small
percentage points that are just noise
anyways. And to someone like product
managers, like product managers are
great when your company gets big enough,
but at the beginning you you should be
thinking about yourself about what
product you want to build. And your
engineer should be hands-on. they should
be having great ideas as well. And so
product management is kind of this weird
conception that big companies have when
your engineers don't have time to be in
the weeds on the on the details and
drive things themselves. It's not a role
that you come up with before.
>> So I guess um with the initial surge
team, it sounds like you had sort of a
small initial tight engineering team.
You guys started building product. You
were bootstrapping off of revenue. You
know, at this point you're at over a
billion dollars in revenue, which is
amazing. Um, how do you think about the
future of how you want to shape the
organization, how big you want to get,
the different products you're you're
launching and introducing? Like what
what do you view sort of the future of
Surge and how that's all going to
evolve?
>> Before we do that, can you just explain
like what the at whatever level of
detail makes sense here? Like what the
billion dollars of revenue is? Maybe
like how product supports the company,
who your data, who your humans are,
because I think there's just very little
visibility into into all of that. So in
terms of what our product is, I mean at
the end of the day our product is our
data. Um like we literally deliver data
to companies and that is what they use
to train and evaluate their models. So
imagine you know when you're one of
those these frontier labs and you want
to improve your model uh your model's
coding abilities. What we will do on our
end is we will gather a lot of coding
data. And so this coding data may come
in different forms and maybe SFT data.
We are literally writing out coding
solutions or maybe unit tests like these
are the tests that a good uh that a good
piece of code must pass.
Maybe it's preference data where it's
okay like here are two pieces of code or
here are two coding explanations which
one's better or these might be like
verifiers like okay um here's a web app
that I created I want to make sure that
in the top right hand of the screen
there's like a there's a login button or
I want to make sure that when you click
this button something else happens like
there's a bunch of different forms that
this data may take but at the end of the
day what we're doing is we're delivering
data that'll basically help the models
improve on these capabilities very very
related to that is this notion of
evaluating the models like you also want
to know yeah is this good coding model
uh is it better than this other one what
are the errors in which this model is
weak and this this model is worse like
what insights can we get from that and
so in addition to the data often times
we're delivering insights to our
customers we're delivering loss patterns
we're delivering failure modes so there
may be a lot of other things um like
related to the data but at the end it's
like this this universe of uh of like
applications or this like just universe
around the data that we deliver and that
that is our product
>> yeah and maybe going back to all's
question um uh maybe like product isn't
actually the right word here, but what's
what's like repeatable about the company
or what are like core capabilities that
you guys have that you would say your
competitors you know um fail to meet the
mark?
>> The way we think about a company is that
and the way we differentiate from others
is that a lot of other companies in this
space they are essentially just body
shops. What they are delivering is not
data. They are literally just delivering
warm bodies to um to uh to companies.
And so what that means is like at the
end of the day they don't have any
technology and one of our fundamental
beliefs is that again quality is the
most important thing at the end of the
day like is this high quality data is
this a good coding solution is this a
good unit test is this mathematical
problem solved correctly is this a great
poem and basically a lot of companies in
this space like just just as of like of
how things have worked out historically
it's that like historically a lot of
companies they uh uh they've treated
quality and data as commodity like one
of the ways We often think about it is
imagine you were trying to draw a
bounding box around a car. Like Sarah,
you and I, we're probably going to draw
the same bounding box. Like ask
Hemingway and ask a second grader. Well,
at the end of the day, we're all going
to draw the same bounding box. There's
not much difference that we can do. So,
there's a very very low ceiling on the
bar of quality, but then take something
like writing poetry. Well, I I suck at
writing poetry. Hemingway is definitely
going to write a much better poem than I
am. Or imagine a I don't know, a VC
pitch deck. you're going to write a much
better you're going to create a much
better pitch deck than I will. And so
there's almost an unlimited ceiling in
this Genai world on the type of quality
that you can that you can build. And so
the way we think of our product is like
we have a platform. We have actual
technology that we're using to measure
the quality that or workers or
annotators are generating. If you don't
have that technology, if you don't have
any way of measuring it, is the
measurement through human evaluation? Is
it through modelbased evaluation? And
I'm a little bit curious like how you
create that feedback loop since to some
extent it's a little bit this question
of how do you have enough evaluators to
evaluate the output relative to the
people generating the output or do you
use models or how how do you approach it
like I think one analogy that we often
make is think about something like
Google search or think about something
like YouTube like you have you know
millions of search results you have
millions of web pages you have millions
of videos how do you evaluate the
qualities of these videos like is this a
high quality like is this a high quality
web page is it informative or is it
really spammy like in the way you do
this is like you just need I mean you
gather so many signals you gather like
page dependent signals you gather like
user dependent signals you gather
activity based signals and all these
feed into you know a giant ML at the end
of the day and so in the same way we we
gather all these signals about our
annotators about the work that they're
performing about like their activity on
the site and we just feed it into um a
lot of these different uh like we
basically have an ML team in TR that
builds a lot of these algorithms to
measure all of this
>> what is changing or breaking as you are
like scaling increasingly sophisticated
like annotations, right? Like if you
know model quality baseline is going up
um every couple of months, then the
expectation is it like exceeds you know
what might have been um a random human
at some point as you said like can draw
a bounding box into all of these
different fields um where uh you know we
we have modeled better than the 90th
percentile at some point.
>> So this is actually something that we do
a lot of internal research on ourselves
as well. So there's basically this field
of uh AI alignment called scalable
oversight which is basically this
question of how do you how do you like
have models and humans working together
hand in hand to produce data that is
better than either one of them can
achieve on their own and so even like
even today something like writing an SAT
story from scratch even today like sure
a couple years ago we might have written
that story completely from scratch
ourselves today it's just like not very
efficient right like you might start
with a story that a model model created
and then you would edit it you might
edit did it in a very substantial way.
Like maybe just the core of it is very
vanilla, very generic, but there's just
so much like kind of like croft that is
just inefficient for a human to do and
doesn't really benefit from like the
human creativity and human ingenuity
that we're trying to add into the
response. And so you can just start with
like this barebones uh structure that
you're basically just layering on top
of. And so again, like there's like more
sophisticated ways of thinking about
scalable oversight, but just this
question of how do you build the right
interfaces, how do you build the right
tools, how do you just combine people
with with with AI in the right ways to
like make them u make them more
efficient. Um is something that we build
a build a lot of technology for.
>> A lot of the discussion in terms of what
human data the labs want has moved to um
RL environments and reward models in you
know recent months. um what is hard
about this or you know what are you guys
working on here?
>> So we do a lot of work building our
environments and I think one of the
things that people really underestimate
is how it is how complicated it is that
you can't just synthetically generate it
like for example you think you need a
lot of tools because
these are massive environments that
people want. Can you give an example of
like just to make it more real
>> like imagine
you are a salesperson
and when you are a salesperson you need
to be interacting with Salesforce you
need to be getting leads through Gmail
you're going to be talking to customers
in Slack you're going to be creating
Excel sheets tracking your leads you're
going to be uh I don't know writing
Google Docs and making PowerPoint
presentations to present things to
customers and so you want the basically
these are very rich environments that
are literally simulating your entire
world as a salesperson
just like imagine like your entire
world. So everything in the future is
not on your desktop as well. Maybe you
have a calendar
to a meeting to meet a customer and then
you want to simulate a car accident
happening and you're getting notified of
that. So you need to like leave a little
bit earlier. Like all these things are
things that we actually want to model in
these very very rich RO environments.
And so the question is how do you
generate all the data that goes into
this? like, okay, you're going to need
to generate like thousands
of Slack messages, hundreds of emails.
You need to make sure that these are all
consistent with each other. You need to
make sure that like going back to like
my core example, you need to make sure
that time is evolving in these
environments and like certain like
external events happen. Like how do you
do all of this? And then um like in a
way that's actually kind of like
interesting and creative but also
realistic and not like in congruent with
each other. uh like there's just like a
lot of thought that needs to go into
these environments um to to make sure
that they're again like rich creative
environments that the models can learn
interesting things from and so uh yeah
you basically need like a lot of tools
and balance sophistication for for great
use.
>> Is there any intuition for like how real
or how complex is enough or is it just
like you know there's a there's no
ceiling on the um realism that is useful
here or the complexity of environment
that is useful here. I think there's no
ceiling like at the end of the day you
just want as as like much diversity and
richness as you can get because the more
richness that you have yeah the more the
models can learn from like the longer
the time horizons the more that the
models can learn on and improve on. So I
think there's almost almost an unlimited
ceiling here. If you were to make a five
or 10 year bet on like what scales most
in terms of demand from people training
AI models and and types of data, is it
RL environments or is it traces on types
of like expert reasoning or or what
other areas do you think there's going
to be a really large demand for? I mean
I think it will be all of the above like
I don't think our environments alone
will suffice just because I mean it
depends on how you think but there are
our environments but oftentimes these
are very very rich trajectories are very
very long and so it's almost like
inconceivable that a single reward um I
mean I think even today we often think
about things in terms of multiple
rewards not just a single reward but a
thing like a single reward just may not
be like rich enough to capture um all
the all the work that goes into like the
model solving some like very very
complicated goal Um so I think it'll
probably be a combination of of all
those.
>> If you assume eventually um some form of
superhuman performance across different
model types relative to human experts,
how do you think about the role of
humans relative to data and data
generation versus synthetic data or
other approaches like at what point does
human input sort of run out as a as a
useful um point of either feedback or
data data generation?
>> So I think human feedback will never run
out and that's for a couple reasons. So
I mean even if I think about the
landscape today I think people often
overestimate the role of synthetic data
like I personally I think synthetic data
actually is very very useful like we use
it um like a ton ourselves in order to
supplement what the humans do like again
like like I said earlier there's like a
lot of croft that simply isn't worth a
human's time but what we often find is
that like for example a lot of times
where customers will come to us and
they'll be like yeah for this past 6
months I've been experimenting with with
synthetic data I've gathered 10 to 20
million pieces of synthetic data
Actually, we finally realized that 99%
of it just wasn't useful. And so, we're
trying to find right now, we're trying
to curate the 5% that is useful, but we
are literally going to throw out 9
million of it. And often times, you'll
find out that yeah, like actually a
thousand even a thousand pieces of high
quality human data, highly cured, really
really high quality human data is
actually more valuable than those 10
mill than those 10 million points. So,
that is one thing I'll say. Another
thing I'll say is that it's almost like
sometimes you need an external signal to
the models. like the models just think
so differently from humans that you
always need to make sure that they're
kind of aligned with the actual
objectives that you want. Let me give
two examples. So one example is that
it's kind of funny if sometimes if you
try so one of the frontier models let me
just say that one of them if you go use
the frontier model it's like one of the
top models or one of the models
everybody think is one of the top if you
go use it today like maybe 10% of the
time when I use it will just output
random Hindi characters and random
Russian characters into one of my
responses so I be like tell me about
Donald Trump tell me about Barack Obama
and just like in the middle of it will
just output Hindi and Russian it's like
what is this and the model just isn't
like self-consistent enough to be aware
of this. It's almost like you need a
like an external human to tell the model
that yeah this is wrong. One of the
things I think is a giant plague on AI
is almsus alam marina and I'll skip the
details for now but I think right now
people will often
it's like if you train your model on the
wrong objectives so like the the mental
model that you should have of LMS marina
is that
people are writing prompts they'll get
two responses and they'll spend like 5
10 seconds looking their responses and
they'll just pick whichever one looks
better to them. So they're not
evaluating whether or not the model
hallucinated. They're not evaluating the
factual accuracy and whether it followed
any instructions. They're literally just
vibing with the model and like, okay,
yeah, like this one seemed better
because it had a bunch of formatting. It
had a bunch of emojis. It just looks
more impressive. And people will train
on like basically an elements of
subjective and they won't realize all
the consequences of it. And again, like
the model itself doesn't doesn't like
know what its objective is. It's like
you almost need like an external like
quality signal in order to tell it what
the right objective should be. And if
you don't have that, then the model will
just go in all these crazy directions.
Again, like you may you may have seen
some of the results with like the with
law before, but just go in all these
crazy directions that um kind of kind of
mean you need these external external
validators.
>> This also happens actually when you do
different forms of like protein
evolution or things like that where you
select a protein against a catalytic
function or something else and you just
kind of randomize it and have like a
giant library of them and you end up
with the same thing where you have these
really weird activities that you didn't
anticipate actually happening. And so I
sometimes think of model training as
almost this odd evolutionary landscape
that you're effectively evolving and
selecting against and you're kind of
shaping the model into that local maxima
or something. And so it's kind of this
really interesting output of anything
where you're effectively evolving
against a feedback uh signal and
depending what that fe feedback signal
is, you just end up with these odd
results. So it's interesting to see how
it kind of transfers across domains.
these you know course uh as you said
5-second reaction academic benchmarks or
even non-academic industrial benchmarks
are uh easily hacked or like not the
right gauge of performance against any
given task. They are very popular. What
is the alternative um for somebody who's
trying to like choose the right model or
understand model capability? So the
alternative that I think all the
frontier labs view as a gold standards
is basically human evaluation. So again
proper human evaluation where you're
actually taking the time to look at the
response. You're going to fact check it.
You're going to see whether or not it
followed all the instructions. You have
good pace so you know whether or not the
the model has good writing quality. Like
this concept of like doing all that and
spending all of time to do that as
opposed to just vibing for 5 seconds I
think actually is really really
important because if you don't do this
you basically you're basically just
training your models on the analog of
clickbait. Um, so I think it actually is
really really important for model
progress.
>> If it's not LMIS, like how should people
um actually evaluate model capability
for any given task?
>> What all differential labs find is that
human evals really are the gold
standard? Like you really need to take a
lot of time to fact check these
responses to verify the following
instructions. You need people with good
taste to evaluate the writing quality uh
and so on and so on. And if you don't do
this, you're basically training your
models on the analy clickbait. And so I
think I think that really really harms
model progress.
>> Is there work that surge is doing in
this domain of like trying to
standardize human eval or make it more
transparent to end consumers of the API
or even users?
>> So internally we do a lot of work
actually today with working with all the
frontier labs to help them understand
our models. So again we're constantly
evaluating them. Um we're constantly
surfacing loss areas for them to improve
on and so on and so on. And so right now
a lot of this is internal but one of the
things we actually want to do is sort of
external forms of this as well where
we're helping educate people on yeah
like these are the different
capabilities of all these models here
these models are better at coding here
these models are better at instruction
following here these models are actually
hallucinating a lot so you trust trust
them as much so we we actually do want
to start a lot of external work to to
help educate the the broader landscape
on this.
>> If we can zoom out and talk just about
the um the larger like competitive
landscape and what happens with frontier
models over time. What does a meta scale
deal mean for you guys or what do you
make of it?
>> So, I think it's kind of interesting in
that. So, we were already the number one
player in the space. It's been
beneficial because yeah, there were
still some legacy teams using scale like
they just didn't know about us because
we were still pretty under the radar. I
think it's been beneficial because one
of the things that we've always believed
is that
sometimes when you use these lowquality
data solutions, people kind of get
burned on human data and so they had
this negative experience and so then
they don't want to use human data again.
And so to try these other methods that
are honestly just a lot slower and don't
come with the right objectives and so I
think it just harms model progress
overall. And so like just like the more
and more we can get all these frontier
labs using high quality data I think it
actually really really is beneficial for
an industry as a whole. So I I am like I
I think overall it was a like a good
thing to happen.
>> If you were to um make a bet that an
underdog catches up to open athropic and
deep mind who would it be? So, I would
bet on XAI. I think they're just very
hungry and missionoriented in a way that
gives them a lot of really unique
advantages.
>> I guess maybe another um sort of broader
question is do you think there's three
competitive frontier models, 10
competitive frontier models uh a couple
years from now? And is any of those open
source?
>> Yeah. So, I actually see more and more
frontier models opening up over time
because I actually don't think that the
models will be commodities. Like I think
one of the things that we've I mean I
think one of the things that has
actually been surprising the past couple
of years is that you actually see all of
their models have their own focuses that
give them unique strengths. Like for
example I think obviously been really
really amazing at coding and enterprise
and open has this big consumer focus
because of chat activityd like I
actually really love it. It's models
personality and then grock you know just
has a different set of things that's
willing to say and to build. And so it's
almost like every company has it's
almost like a different set of
principles that they care about. Like
they're like some will just never do one
thing. Others are totally willing to do
it. Others just have different like
models will just have so many different
facets to their personality, so many
different facets to the type of skills
that they will be good at. And sure,
like eventually AGI will maybe encompass
this this all, but in the meantime, you
just kind of need to focus. Like there's
only so many focuses that you can have
as a company. And so I think that just
will lead to uh like different strengths
for all the model providers. So I mean I
think today you know we already see like
a lot of people including me we will
switch between all the different uh
models just depending on what we're
doing. And so in the future I think that
will um just happen even more as as
people are just using more and more
models for or using models for different
aspects of their lives like both their
personal and their in their like
professional lives. Going back to
something Elad mentioned, like where
should we expect to see like a surge
investing over time? Like what do you
think you guys will do a few years from
now that you don't do today?
>> Again, I think I'm really excited about
this more kind of like public research
push that we're we're starting to have
like I think it is really interesting in
that a lot of the like for obvious
reasons a lot of the frontier labs
they're just not publishing anymore. And
as a result of that, I think it's almost
like the the industry has fallen into
kind of a trap that I worry about. So
like maybe to dig into some of some of
the things I said earlier um with some
of the negative incentives of the
industry and some of the kind of
concerning trends that that that we've
seen. So like going back to LMS, one of
the things that we'll see is like a lot
of researchers, they'll tell us that
their VPs make them focus on increasing
their rake on LM LMS. And so I've had
researchers explicitly tell me that
they're okay with making their models
worse at factuality, worse at following
instructions as long as it improves
their ranking because their leadership
just wants to see these metrics go up.
And again, that is like something that
literally literally happens because the
people ranking these things analysis.
They don't care whether the models are
good at following. They don't care
whether the models are um are emitting
like factual responses. They what they
care about is okay, did this model emit
a lot of emojis? Did it emit a lot of
bold words? Did it have really long
responses? Because that's just going to
look more impressive to them. Like one
of the things that we found is that the
easiest way to improve your rank on Elm
Marina is literally to make your make
your model response longer. And so what
happens is like there are a lot of
companies who are trying to improve
their leaderboard rank. So they'll see
progress for 6 months because all
they're doing is unwillingly making
their model responses longer and adding
more emojis
and they don't realize that all they're
doing is training their models to
produce better clickbait. and they might
finally realize six months or a year
later like again you may have seen some
of these things in industry but it
basically means that they spent the past
six months making zero progress and in a
similar way I think you know besides LMS
you have all these academic benchmarks
and they're completely diverse in the
real world like a lot of teams are
focused on improving these SAT style
scores instead of real world progress
like like I'll give an example there's a
benchmark benchmark called if eval and
if you look at if eval so it stands for
instruction following eval if you look
at if eval like some of the instructions
it's trying to check whe our models can
do It's like, "Hey, can you uh write an
essay about Abraham Lincoln?" And every
time you uh like mention the word
Abraham Lincoln, make sure that five of
the letters are capitalized and all the
other letters are uncalized. It's like
what is this? And sometimes we'll get
customers telling us like yeah like we
really really need to improve our like
our score on on if val and what this
means is again like you have all these
companies or all these researchers who
instead of focused on real world
progress they're just like optimizing
for these silly SAT style benchmarks.
And so one of the things that we we
really want to do is just think about
ways to educate the industry think about
ways of publishing on our own just like
think about ways of steering the
industry into like hopefully a better
direction. And so I think that's just
one one big thing that we're we're
really excited about and could be could
be really big in the next five years.
>> Okay. Yeah. I mean, so Sarah brought up
earlier um how everybody kind of wants
high quality data.
What does that mean? How do you think
about that? How do you generate it? Can
you tell us a little bit more about your
thoughts on that?
>> So let's let's say you wanted to train a
model to write an eight line poem about
the moon. And so the way most companies
think about it is well let's just hire a
bunch of people from Craigslist or
through some recruiting agency and let's
ask them to write poems. And then the
way they think about quality is well is
this a poem? Is it eight lines? Does it
contain the word moon? If so, like,
okay, yeah, I hit these three check
boxes. So, yeah, sure, this is a great
poem because it follows all these
instructions. But if you think about it,
like the reality is you get these
terrible poems. Like, sure, it's eight
lines that has the word moon, but they
feel like they're written by kids from
high school. And so, other companies be
like, okay, sure, these people on
Craigslist don't have any poetry
experience. So, I'm going to do instead
is hire a bunch of people with PhDs in
English literature. But this is also
terrible. Like, a lot of PhDs, they are
actually not good writers or poets. Like
if you think like think of Hemingway or
Emily Dickinson, they definitely didn't
have a PhD. I don't think they even
completed college. And like one of the
things I will say is like yeah, I I went
to MIT. I think Eli you went you went
there too. And a lot of people I knew
from MIT who graduate with a CS degree,
they're terrible coders. And so we think
about quality completely differently.
Like what we want isn't poetry that
checks some boxes and like okay yeah
check the street boxes and uses some
complicated language. We want the type
of poetry that Nobel Prize laurates
would write. So what you want is like
okay we want to recognize that poetry is
actually really subjective and rich like
maybe one poem it's a haik coup about
moonlight on water and there's another
poem that's like it has a lot of
internal rhyme meter and another one
that I don't know focus on the emotions
behind the moon rising at night and so
you actually want to capture that
there's thousands of ways to write a
poem about the moon there isn't a single
correct way and each one gives you all
these different insights into language
and imagery and poetry and if you think
about it's not just poetry it's like
math there's a thousand ways probably to
to prove the pythagorian theorem. And so
I think the the difference is that when
you think about quality the wrong way,
you kind of get commodity data that
optimizes for things like inner radar
agreement and again checking boxes off
of some list. But one of the things that
we try to teach all of our customers is
that high quality data actually really
embraces human intelligence creativity.
And when you train the models on this
like richer data, they don't just learn
to follow instructions. They really
learn all these deeper patterns about
all the stuff that makes language in the
world really compelling and meaningful.
And so I think a lot of companies they
just throw humans at the problem and
they think that you can get good data
that way. But I think you really need to
think about quality from first
principles and what it means and you
need a lot of technology to identify
yeah that these are amazing programs and
these are creative math problems and
these are games and web apps that are
beautiful and fun to play and these ones
are terrible to use. So I think you you
really need to build a lot of technology
and think about quality in the right
way. Otherwise you're basically just
like scaling up mediocrity.
>> That sounds very domain specific. So do
you like in every domain are you
building a lens of what quality looks
like along with your partners?
>> Yeah, I mean I think we have kind of
like holistic quality principles but
then often times there are differences
per domain. So it's like a combination
of both.
>> I think we got all the uh core topics.
Nice work on podcast number two Edwin
and thanks for doing this. Congrats on
all the progress with the business.
>> Yeah. No, thanks so much for joining us.
>> Yeah, it was great great meeting you
guys.
>> Find us on Twitter at no prior pod.
Subscribe to our YouTube channel if you
want to see our faces. Follow the show
on Apple Podcasts, Spotify, or wherever
you listen. That way, you get a new
episode every week. And sign up for
emails or find transcripts for every
episode at no-bers.com.
[Music]